html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd" Harvard Mathematics Department : Information  


Home
About
People
Courses
Undergrad
Graduate
Research
Admin
News
Seminars
Conferences
Computing
Sitemap



 
Harvard Mathematics Department Information 












Department of Mathematics
FAS
Harvard University
One Oxford Street
Cambridge MA 02138 USA
Tel: (617) 495-2171
Fax: (617) 495-5132



Chair

As of July 1, 2013, the Chair of the Mathematics Department is
Benedict Gross. Contact information:Benedict Gross, Science Center, 3th Floor
5-9063, gross@math.harvard.edu

Director of Undergraduate Studies

The director of Undergraduate Studies is 
Peter Kronheimer. 
For questions about concentration in Mathematics, contact the 
undergraduate student coordinator 
Cindy Jiminez.


Department Staff
Irene Minder
is the department's director of finance and 
administration. You find
a staff directory on the resources page.
For visitors, there is
some more information as well as
some pointers on computing.

Research

Mathematics research is done in various research areas
The junior faculty home pages, the 
visitor interests page, 
or the graduate student home pages contain more links.
Check also the 
dissertation titles, 
senior thesis titles, 
mathematics seminar archive, 
the faculty colloquium or regular 
conferences like the CDM conference,
the JDG conference or a
topology conference, the conference archive 
or research programs like
the eigenvarieties program 2006. 
Also the seminar talk archive,
the undergraduate math colloquium 
can give clues about activities. A good starting point on the web is also
the MathSciNet search for "Harvard Mathematics" at AMS
or a 
Google scholar search for "Harvard Mathematics". 

Department 

The Mathematics department is located on the floors 2-5 in the 
Science center.
Information how to reach the department is 
here.
During the semesters, there is tea at 4 o'clock in the Math common room.
On Fridays, there is usually "wine and cheese" available. (The name does not exclude "beer" and nonalcoholic drinks to be available).

Within Harvard

The mathematics department is part of the 
faculty of arts and sciences (FAS) at Harvard university.
The department is located in the 
Science Center
at 1 Oxford street
in Cambridge near Boston in the state of
Massachusetts. 
There is a virtual tour of Harvard.



Calculus

To search all Harvard courses, start here.
Mathematics courses are listed  on this page.
Calculus courses are mainly taught in smaller sections.
The preceptor group led by Robin Gottlieb 
coordinates the calculus program. 
Information about sectioning,
advising and placement tests is located here.
For questions, contact the calculus coordinator 
Susan Milano from the calculus office. 

Computing

The department senior system administrator is 
Arthur Gaer. 
 He is assisted by <a href="../people/ChvanyPete.html">Pete Chvany</a>. 
For computing support, please email computing@math. 
For information, start with the computing links and
especially the frequently asked questions.
Visitors wishing to use computing resources, find information here.
The departmental Solaris server "Abel" can be reached
by a web browser or with 
webmail.
For administrative purposes, there are Apple OSX and 
several Linux servers like for example a newer Sunfire X4150 Server with 2 quadcore Xeons, 8G Ram. For scientific computing,
there is a 64-bit quad Sun Fire V480 Server with 22GB RAM,
a Linux cluster meccah 
is now replaced by a Sun 16 core X4700 Opteron machine, called Alhambra.

Courses
Here is a list 
of Math courses which are part of all FAS courses.
Some department members also teach at the Summer school or the 
Extension school and its
teaching Masters program.
During the semester
or in the summer, tutorials are organized. Information about
current tutorials can be found in the
tutorial pamphlet. 
All the pamphlets are listed 
here in HTML and PDF form. You can download all pamphlets together
as a 30 page PDF document. 

Location

Directions to reach the department are on this page. 
To find your way around, 
the Open customized street map,
the Google map,
the Harvard university map, or
the Floorplans might help.
Here are some pictures of the 
science center.

Libraries

The Librarian of the "laptop and cellphone free" Birkhoff library in the department is 
Nancy Miller. 
Nancy also is the contact to the registrar
as well as book stores for course material. The chair of the Library committee is 
Curtis McMullen.
The Science center locates also the Cabot library, 
one of the many libraries
at Harvard. For more information to all Harvard libraries, start 
here. Downstairs in the Cabot science library, there is a scanner. 
It is located near the periodicals and allows to scan papers to memory stick or via network to your 
computer. 


Graduate 

The web page with information about the graduate school is 
here. This page contains for example
an archive of old qualifying exams.
For questions about the graduate school, contact the graduate 
coordinator Susan Gilbert. 
The director of graduate studies is
Joe Harris.

Undergraduate 

Most information for undergraduates is
here. Math table talks are listed 
here. Information on the Putnam exam is on this page.
For undergraduate research opportunities look here.
For questions about concentration in Mathematics, contact the undergraduate student coordinator
Cindy Jiminez.
The senior faculty undergraduate coordinator is 
Peter Kronheimer.


Seminars

Some recent news can be accessed here.
Events and seminars in the Boston area are listed 
on this page.
If you organize a seminar needing advertisement, fill out a form there. The current and future 
seminar announcements at the
Mathematics department are regularly moved to the
archive. We also keep a 
long term archive. These archives can 
be sorted in different ways. Contact Susan Peterson
to post an event, or make a room request. 
You might also want to look at the the faculty colloquium talks, 
the trivial notions talks 
archived here,
the undergraduate colloquium a weekly event which is also called the
"Math Table", or the teaching seminars.

Jobs

Information on applying to the graduate school can be found on the admissions section of
the graduate web page.
To apply for a Benjamin Peirce Lectureship, use the application form 
in  TXT or 
 PDF format.
To apply for the Preceptor position in Mathematics, use the application form
in TXT or 
PDF format. 
For upper and lower level 
course assistant positions
check out the jobs page. 

Conferences

Here is an archive of recent conferences
at the Mathematics department.

History

We have a collection of texts about the history
of the Mathematics department. It contains also other resources like 
scanned old department directories, 
scanned old maps of Cambridge, 
old lithographs in high resolution
or photos of old math models exhibited in the 
Math common room. 




Department of Mathematics
Harvard University
Faculty of Arts & Sciences
Harvard Science



Webmaster
   © 2012 The President and Fellows of Harvard College,
   Feedback to this page



Privacy


HTML
CSS

