 David Spergel's Homepage 

David  Spergel's  Home Page
 








 Research Interests

I am a theoretical astrophysicist. My interests range from

the search for planets around nearby stars  to the shape of
the universe.

Over the last decade, the 
 WMAP Satellite
has been the main focus of my research.  WMAP was
successfully  launched on June 30, 2001.  
The results from WMAP are described
in a series of papers.  The
WMAP 2003 and 2006 parameters papers are  currently the 4th and 10th most cited paper in 

the entire SPIRES catalog  and the two most cited papers in physics published this millenium.  Our seven year results paper is the most cited paper published in 2011 in physics and strophysics.


See 
this interview for a brief description of the WMAP results
and see 
Mike Lemonick's book for the story of the WMAP satellite.  My next major CMB project is the

Atacama Cosmology Telescope (ACT)
and  supporting observations through 

the Southern Cosmology Surveys, an international collaboration.

I am involved in several large space and ground-based collaborations
that are developing new technologies for cosmology and exoplanet science:


Princeton University TPF group

new technologies that should hopefully enable the
direct imaging of earth-like planets.  

Cochair, Science Definition Team or 
the WFIRST mission, a mission that aims to understand
dark energy, explore the growth of structures and galaxies,
and search for extrasolar planets.  
 US
 Euclid  science team
PIXIE Science team,  an Explorer-class mission to measure the gravity-wave signature of primordial inflation
 SUMIRE, Subaru Measurement of Images and Redshifts, a two part rpoject
consisting of the HyperSuprime Cam survey or the sky followed by the
spectroscopic study with PFS. (Chair, HSC Executive Committee; Member,
PFS Executive Committee)



I am also part of the Institute for the Physics and Mathematics of the Universe (IPMU) 

Here are links to a list of my 

recent and 

most-cited papers.







 Contact Information

 Room 113, Peyton Hall, Princeton, NJ, 08544
 Phone: (609) 258 3589
 Fax: (609) 258 8226
 email: dns at astro DOT princeton DOT edu



 Teaching 


FRS 126 
Imagining Other Earths (FRS 126) (Spring 2013)
 AST 303
Astronomical Methods (Next taught, Fall 2014.  Taught by Strauss, Fall 2012)
.  
 AST 524/PHY 564
 Cosmology (AST 524/PHY 564) (Spring 2011. Next taught in Spring 2014)


 Administration 

I am serving as Chair of the Department and am the
Charles A. Young Professor of Astronomy on the Class of 1897 Foundation.
I am an Associate Faculty Member in the Physics Department and in the Mechanical and Aerospace
Engineering Department.   I am currently co-chair of the NAS Committee on Astronomy and Astrophysics.
My  CV 
 and recent publications.









Talks




Presidential Lecture Series:Illuminating the History of the Universe
with the Cosmic Microwave Background



Introduction to WFIRST/AFTA Mission



Recent Results from ACT talk
at IPMU (Video)


New Cosmology Talk


Dark Energy  Talk


Talk on Terrestrial Planet Finding



You Tube talk at Dartmouth
on Dark Energy, Dark Matter, and Inflation"


My popular talk on 

"Taking the Universe's Baby Picture" is available on-line at UCTV.
Another version of the lecture is also available at iTunes U.









 Astrophysics Links 





  Princeton University
Observatory  and 
Library . 

  Other astronomy
resources. 
  Atacama Cosmology Telescope 
  CMB Experiments
at Princeton 
 
Cosmology at Princeton"
 
Princeton Center for Theoretical Physics 
  WMAP web page














Other Interesting Links


 MacArthur Fellowship  Announcement and  Party Pictures 
 Time Magazine:  America's Best Scientists
  Earth and Sky 
  AAS home page and 
AAS Grants and Prizes Page 
 
ADS Abstract Service
 Recent Picture of David Spergel
 
Old Pictures of David Spergel













 Former Thesis Students 




Jean
Quashnock   (Dept. Chair, Physics, Carthage College)
 Kevin Long  
Associate Professor of Mathematics and Statistics, Texas Tech University 
 Arlie Petters   (Beanjamin Powell Professori of Mathematics, Duke University)
  Suvendra Dutta, Res. Staff, Harvard/Smithsonian CfA 
  Fred Persi  V.P. of Products and Technology, Quantapoint 
 Hong Sheng Zhao Lecturer, University of St Andrews 
 Julianne Dalcanton, Prof., Univ.of Washington
 James Rhoads, Assoc. Prof.,
Arizona State University
 
Jeremy Kepner, Lincoln Laboratories 
 Maki Suginohara, National Astronomical Observatory of Japan
 David Goldberg, Prof., Drexel University 


S. Peng Oh, Assoc. Prof., UC Santa Barbara 


Eiichiro Komatsu, Director, Max Planck Institute, Garching 


Hiranya Peiris: Reader, University College, London 
 Niayesh Afshordi: Assistant Professor, Perimeter & Waterloo 
 Joe Hennawi: Research Staff, MPI Heidelberg 
 Simon Dedeo: Asst. Prof., University of Indiana 
 Ed Sirko: Software Engineer, Virtualheroes  
 Janice Hester: Postdoctoral Fellow, Caltech 
 Beth Reid: Hubble Postdoctoral Fellow, Berkeley  
 Sudeep Das: Asst. Prof., University of Michigan 
 Shirley Ho: Assistant Professor, Carnegie Mellon University 
 Aurelien Fraisse: Postdoctoral Fellow, Princeton 
 Kheegan Lee: Postdoctoral Fellow, Max Planck Institute 


 Current Graduate Students 

 Simone Ferraro *15
 Colin  Hill *14
 Emmanuel Schaan *17 
 Blake Sherwin *13 
 Ai-Lei Sun  *16


 Current Postdoctoral Fellows 

 Renee Hlozek (Spitzer Fellow)
 Daan Meerburg (Rubicon Fellow)
 Lorenzo Mercolli (Swiss NSF Fellow) 
 Hironao Miyatake (JSPS Fellow)
 Fabian Schmidt (NASA Einstein Fellow)
 Kendrick Smith (Spitzer Fellow)
 Naonori Sugiyama (JSPS Fellow) 
 Svetlin Tassev 

 Current  Undergraduate Students 

 Lisa Einstein '13 
 Lehman Garrison '13 
 Luca Iliesiu '15 
 Carolina Nunez '13 
 Tomer Yavetz '14 
 Joel Zinn  '13

 Awards 
Shaw Prize
 
Science Citation Laureate
 MacArthur Fellowship
 Gruber Prize (as member of WMAP team)
 American Academy of Arts and Sciences
 National Academy of Sciences
 Time Magazine 25 Most Influential Space Scientists 



