html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD HTML 4.01 Transitional//EN"Edmund Phelps Home Page
 
 


 


















 

Edmund
S.


























                  Phelps


International Affairs, Suite 1126

Phone: 212-854-2060 

Dept. Phone: 212-854-3680 
Fax: 212-854-3735 
Email: esp2@columbia.edu 
 
   

























          


For
              additional recent press and speeches, visit Professor
              Phelps's Business Site: edmundphelps.com
Visit
the


























            Center on Capitalism and Society
Visit



















              Professor Phelps's Facebook Profile







       Edmund Phelps was
            born in 1933 in Evanston, Ill., spent his childhood in Chicago
            and, from age six, grew up in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He
            earned his B.A. from Amherst in 1955 and his Ph.D. from Yale
            in 1959. He is McVickar Professor of Political Economy at
            Columbia University, Director of Columbia’s Center
              on Capitalism and Society. He was the winner of the
            2006 Nobel Prize in Economics. His
            career began with a stint at the RAND Corporation. Back east
            in 1960, he held positions at Yale and its Cowles Foundation
            until 1966, then a professorship for five years at Penn. In
            1970 he moved to New York
            and joined Columbia
            in 1971.
                    Phelps’s work can be
            seen as a program to put “people as we know them” back into
            economic models – to take into account the incompleteness of
            their information and their knowledge and to study the
            effects of their expectations and beliefs on the workings of
            markets. He has adopted this perspective in studying
            unemployment and inclusion, economic growth, business swings
            and economic dynamism.
                  Phelps holds many
          honorary doctorates and professorships, including from the
          Université libre de Bruxelles (2010), Tsinghua
          University (2007) and the Institut d’Etudes Politiques de
          Paris (2006), among others. Phelps is a Fellow of the National
          Academy of Science and a Distinguished Fellow of the American
          Economic Association, and in 2001 a Festschrift conference was
          held in his honor. In 2008, he was named Chevalier de la
          Légion d’Honneur and awarded the Premio Pico della
          Mirandola and the Kiel Global Economy Prize. The same year the
          UBA Law School established the Catedra Phelps and the Phelps
          Medal for Innovation. In 2010, he was appointed Dean of New
          Huadu Business School at Minjiang University in Fuzhou. In
          2011, Professor Phelps received the Louise Blouin Creative
          Leadership Award and was named a Full Foreign Member of the
          Russian Academy of Sciences and in 2012 he was elected an
          Honorary Patron of the University Philosophical Society of
          Trinity College and was awarded the Mendeleev Medal for
          Achievement in the Sciences.





Phelps’s work
    is best known for introducing in the late ’60s an expectations-based
    microeconomics into the theory of employment determination and
    price-wage dynamics. Keynes’s great work of the ’30s had left it
    unexplained why involuntary unemployment is observed even in the
    best of times and why a drop of aggregate “effective demand” causes
    a rise of unemployment – why not a prompt fall of money wages and
    prices by just enough to forestall a fall of employment? The
    challenge was to resolve these issues while continuing to posit the
    elementary rationality that economics traditionally ascribed to workers, consumers and firms.

In Phelps’s “micro-macro” models, attaining equilibrium in
    the markets – meaning participants’ expectations consistent with
    their actions – does not generally eliminate unemployment, not even
    involuntary unemployment. In a 1968 paper, the economy's firms face
    a management problem, costly employee turnover, and a firm's wage
    policy aims to balance payroll cost against turnover cost. On an
    equilibrium path, the going wage at each point is generally an
    "incentive wage," hence a wage that is more than enough to hire
    employees; but that results in “job rationing" and thus involuntary
    unemployment throughout. In a 1969 paper, Phelps sketched an economy
    of widely separated "islands" in which workers have to decide
    whether to accept the local market wage or to move on. Even in an
    equilibrium scenario, workers on an island with an appreciably
    inferior wage will get on the boat to try another island, suffering
    voluntary  unemployment during
      their search.

      The main discovery from these models was the potential for
      disequilibrium and its effects on economic activity. Errors


























      in wage or price expectations would disturb the volume of
      unemployment. If, in the labor turnover model, each firm deciding
      its next wage, say, underestimates the wage being set at
      the other firms, i.e., the actual wage exceeds the expected wage,
      the error reduces the firms’ expected turnover and hence their
      expected costs, thus encouraging them to pay less and hire more,
      which drives down unemployment. If, in the islands model, the
      average wage exceeds what workers expect it is, the underestimate
      prompts some workers to accept a job rather than go on searching,
      so, again, unemployment drops. In the same spirit, a 1967 paper
      supposed that an underestimate by each firm of the price being set
      by the others would encourage increases in output supply and labor
      demand, raising employment; a 1970 paper introducing the “customer
      market,” coauthored with Sidney Winter, supplied a basis for this
      idea. From all this, an answer to the puzzle of Keynes emerged: An
      unperceived rise in “effective demand,” in driving up the average
      money wage and the price level, would reduce unemployment if the
      average firm (or island) did not know or imagine that the general
      price and wage level had increased by as much as its own – i.e.,
      if the actual price or wage inflation exceeded the expected. A
      persistent over-estimation of upcoming money wages and
      prices could cause a protracted depression. The volume deriving
      from a conference Phelps organized at Penn, Microeconomic Foundations of
        Employment and Inflation Theory (Norton, 1970), was the
      first wave in this new macroeconomics. Applications to demand
      management were made in the 1967 paper and in his monograph
      Inflation Policy and Unemployment Theory (Norton, 1972).

These prototype micro-macro models contained another
    departure from convention. The models usually postulated that the
    equilibrium path of the unemployment rate depended only on
    non-monetary considerations, hence not upon the expected or the
    actual inflation rate. This supposed “neutrality” of money and
    inflation (dubbed the 
    natural rate hypothesis by Milton Friedman in his parallel work on
    disequilibrium labor supply) nicely simplified the analysis of
    shocks and most econometricians found it descriptive enough in
    normal cases. The striking implication of this postulate was that,
    once expectations adjust, the inflation rate that was targeted by
    the central bank would have no effect on the subsequent path of
    unemployment rate and hence no effect on the medium-run steady-state
    level to which any equilibrium path (with its distinct starting
    point) would lead. Thus, raising the inflation rate target might
    advance an employment recovery but not improve the end result. This
    logically inessential but apparently realistic feature of the new
    models challenged the Keynesian tenet, embodied in the famous
    Phillips curve, that  monetary or
      fiscal stimulus could achieve a lower unemployment rate by
      choosing a higher inflation rate.

    Phelps spent much of the ‘70s replying to a further development from
    other quarters: to theoretical demonstrations that a departure from
    the current equilibrium path would be merely momentary if every
    economic actor had so-called rational expectations. (When all the
    “news” arrives at month’s end, prices and wages would jump precisely
    to regain equilibrium.) In frequently collaborative research at
    Columbia in the 1970s he argued that if most wage and price setting
    is nonsynchronous, such a
    deviation would take time to die out even if everyone had "rational"
    expectations. See, for example, a 1977 paper with John Taylor. This
    work helped start what came to be known as New Keynesian
    macroeconomics. In the early 1980s Phelps argued that if
    participants believe their preferred model of sales, employment and
    prices is not shared by all participants, the deviation might be
    protracted. Various consequences of this pluralism of beliefs,
    actual or feared, are analyzed in his paper and other papers in the
    conference volume he edited with Roman Frydman, Individual
    Forecasting and Aggregate Outcomes (Cambridge,

























      1983).

While these views went on winning support among
      macroeconomics experts, the last two decades were testing times.
      The ‘80s witnessed a powerful slump in Europe with no evidence of
      unexpected disinflation or deflation; the latter half of the ‘90s
      brought a strong boom to the U.S. economy and northern Europe
      without evidence of unexpected inflation—all contrary to the
      simple models. In response, Phelps began in the late ‘80s to
      develop a theory of the equilibrium path itself – a theory of the
      determinants of the natural unemployment rate. The models built
      and their first statistical test were set forth in Structural Slumps: The Modern
        Equilibrium Theory of Unemployment, Interest and Assets
      (Harvard, 1994). Subsequent papers in this project include
      ‘Growth, wealth and the natural rate: is Europe’s jobs crisis a
      growth crisis?’ ‘The rise and downward
        trend of the natural rate,’ ‘Natural rate theory and OECD unemployment,’


























      and ‘Lessons in natural-rate dynamics.

At the level of historical understanding, this theoretical
    development served to underpin hypotheses linking the ‘80s slump to
    a worldwide rise of real interest rates, the sharp transition to
    more moderate productivity growth in the European economies, and the
    growth of the welfare state to huge proportions, especially on the European continent. At a more general
      level, this work pointed to the crucial role for employment
      determination played by the values (also known as shadow prices)
      that firms place on the various sorts of business assets with
      which they operate: the employee with the needed firm-specific
      preparation, the customer, and nonhuman tangibles such as
      industrial plant and office facilities. This feature of the theory
      suggested that the prices of shares traded on organized stock
      exchanges might be serviceable as observable proxies for the
      mostly unobservable asset values, which opened up new statistical
      tests of the theory. See 'Behind this
        structural boom: the role of
        asset valuations,' and 'Roots
        of the recent recoveries: labor reforms or private-sector forces?’
This


























      equilibrium theory of endogenous structural unemployment turned
      out to supply an explanation of the inflationless booms in the
      late ‘90s. In their thinking about the long wave of business
      expansions in the late 19th century, the German School under
      Spiethof and Cassel suggested that prospects of new industries or
      new methods requiring further capital, and this interpretation can
      be translated into an unexpected jump in the values that firms,
      looking to the new opportunities, place on one or more business
      assets. (An April 2000 Wall Street Journal
        essay provides an introduction to this analysis.)

Phelps’s interest in structural booms alongside his interest,
    dating from the early ‘90s, in the questions raised by the professed
    desire of some eastern European countries to build predominantly
    capitalist economies have led to mounting research on his part into
    the functioning and performance of capitalist institutions. The
    first step, following some years surveying the interwar literature
    on theory, was to confirm, in a 1996 paper (forthcoming) with Darius
    Palia, that indeed countries with more of the economy’s industry
    under private ownership achieve faster productivity growth, other
    things equal. The next step was to ask whether the economies that
    boomed in the late ‘90s (the U.S., Sweden, Finland, Ireland, and so
    forth) had the sort of institutions and resources that entrepreneurs
    under capitalism require to a greater extent than the countries that
    did not boom (Italy, Germany, Austria, Spain and so forth); the
    results here were published in a 2001 paper with Gylfi Zoega. (An August 2000 Financial Times essay presents
    an elementary exposition.) Phelps and Zoega are now embarking on a
    broader assessment of the effects of
      the institutions of capitalism, with special attention to
      productivity level and job satisfaction.

Alongside his recent research on capitalism Phelps has also
    done research on the causes and cures of joblessness and low wages
    among disadvantaged workers. His recent book for the general public
    Rewarding Work (Harvard, 1997)
    combines these interests. Subsequent papers on these themes include
    'A strategy for employment

























      and growth: the failure of statism, welfarism, and free markets,'

























    an OECD conference paper titled 'The
      importance of inclusion and the power of job subsidies to increase it,’

























      and a critique of proposals for stakeholder grants and universal
      income benefits titled ‘Subsidize wages.’

Phelps recently served as Senior Advisor to the project Italy
    in Europe at the Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, Italy, for
    three years until May 2000. He was a member of the International
    Panel on Economic Policy of the OFCE in Paris in the 1990s, and
    co-organizer of the annual Villa Mondragone seminar of the
    University of Rome 'Tor Vergata' from 1990 to 2000. He was a charter
    member of the Economic Advisory council of the EBRD and wrote most
    of the Annual Economic Outlook, which appeared in September 1993. He
    has been a consultant at the U.S. Treasury Department, U.S. Senate
    Finance Committee, and Federal Reserve Board.

      In 2001 Phelps founded with Roman Frydman the Center
        on Capitalism & Society at Columbia (now a unit of Arts
      and Sciences) to promote and conduct research on capitalism.

      Among his other books are
      Fiscal Neutrality toward Economic Growth (McGraw-Hill, 1965) and
      Golden Rules of Economic Growth (Norton, 1966), his selected
      papers in Studies in Macroeconomic Theory (Academic Press, 1980),
      the reader Economic Justice (Penguin, 1974), a conference volume
      Altruism, Morality and Economic Theory (Basic Books, 1975), his
      textbook Political Economy (Norton,
      1985), the monograph with J.P. Fitoussi, The Slump in Europe
      (Blackwell, 1988), and his Arne Ryde lectures Seven Schools of
      Macroeconomic Thought (Oxford, 1990).

Phelps was elected to the National Academy of Sciences (USA)
    in 1981, was made a Distinguished Fellow of the American Economic
    Association in 2000, and was elected to be a full member of the
    Russian Academy of Science in December of 2011. (Citation.)
    He is also a former vice-president of the Association, a fellow of
    the Econometric Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
    and the New York Academy of Sciences. He was a Guggenheim fellow in
    1978, a fellow at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavior
    Science in 1969-70 and visiting scholar at the Russell Sage
    Foundation in 1993-94. He holds a Ph.D. from Yale University (1959).
    In 1985 he was awarded an honorary degree from his alma mater,
    Amherst College. In June 2001 he received an honorary doctorate from
    the University of Mannheim and from the University of Rome “Tor
    Vergata,” in October 2003 from Universidade Nova Lisboa, in July
    2004 from University of Paris Dauphine and in October 2004 from the
    University of Iceland. He was made an honorary professor at the
    Renmin University, Beijing, in May 2004. He also holds honorary
    doctorates from the Institut d'Etudes des Sciences Politiques de
    Paris (2006), the Universidad de Buenos Aires (2007),
      Tsinghua University (2007), and the Université libre
    de Bruxelles (2010).  An international Festschrift in 
    his honor was held at Columbia University in October 2001 and the
    600 page conference volume was published by Princeton University
    Press in 2003 (Knowledge,
      Information and Expectations in Modern Economics P. Aghion,
    R. Frydman, J.E. Stiglitz and M. Woodford, eds.) 

    Business Website: edmundphelps.com
    The Center on Capitalism and Society: www.capitalism.columbia.edu
 




 

Autobiography 
C.V. 
180 Word
                  Bio
280 Word
                  Bio
320 Word
                  Bio
Bird's Eye View of My Scientific
                    Work 
Becoming


























                    an Economist (2007) 
Recollections


























                    of My Past 

Research


























                    in Economics 
Autobiography


























                  (1995) 
Memoir


























                  (1995)


Personal Interviews 

Interview


























                  with Edmund S. Phelps by Howard Vane and Chris
                  Mulhearn (2009)
Interview with Edmund S.
                  Phelps by Karen Horn (2009)



 



Biographical Essays

Laudatio
                  by Jean-Paul Fitoussi (2009)

Edmund Phelps: AEA Luncheon
                  Speech (2008) by James J. Heckman

Edmund
Phelps:


























                  AEA Luncheon Speech (2008) by Amartya Sen

Edmund Phelps: AEA
                  Luncheon Speech (2008) by Joseph Stiglitz

"Edmund
                      Phelps and Modern Macroeconomics" by Robert W.
                      Dimand (2008) 

"Ned Phelps'
                      Contributions as Viewed from Today through My
                      Personal Filter by Robert J. Gordon

"Edmund


























                  Phelps: Macroeconomist and Social Scientist"by Peter
                  Howitt (2007)

"Celebrating


























                      Ned" by Axel Leijonhufvud








Books 

Desciptions and
                  Covers

Selected Books

Complete List




Scholarly Papers

Some Recent Papers
Complete
                  Papers


Media
Op-Eds
Articles


Speeches
Some Recent Speeches
Complete Speeches


 

Other
Bonbons



               
             


 




2006 Nobel Prize

Prize


























                    Lecture


Interviews


























                    Roundtables



Press
                    Coverage
Photo

























                    Gallery








Press Interviews and Roundtables

Print
Audio
Video


Press Commentary


Other Press Coverage






 
Last Update: October 29,
      2013  

