Dr. Karl Joreskog


Dr. Karl Joreskog's story 




Karl Joreskog completed his studies to be a grammar school teacher in
Sweden--a career path that had been his lifelong goal.  Following completion
of his studies in June, just as he was about to go out on his first practice
teaching assignment, a friend of his told Karl that he was getting married
and wanted to go on a long honeymoon.  He asked if Karl Joreskog would take
his summer job in a statistics lab for him instead.  So to help out a friend,
Karl postponed his practice teaching assignment and worked in the stats lab
over the summer, with full intention of taking up his teaching assingment in
the fall.

When fall came, a professor, who was the chair of the statistics department,
told Karl, "we cannot let you become a grammar school teacher!  Instead, we
want you to continue as a Ph.D. student in our statistics department."  This
was because Karl had shown such a tremendous aptitude for statistics.  And
the rest is history.

I'm sure that Professor Joreskog could tell the story with a bit more gusto,
but there are a couple points to it.  One of them is that ne never really
gave up on his dream of teaching grammar school, and if you have ever heard
him teach in his workshops, everything he presents is incredibly SIMPLE.
 That is what makes him such a great teacher.

DISCLAIMER:  I am telling this story from memory, having heard it from
Professor Joreskog on a trip to Philadelphia to teach around 1988 or earlier.
 I always found this story about how he got into statistics extremely
interesting.  Life can be quite unpredictable!

Additional Joreskog Trivia:  At that time he visited Philadelphia Professor
Joreskog was especially excited about three things:  (1) the 386 computer was
about to come out, and he was besides himself with excitement.  He thought of
a 386 pc as a "little mainframe."  He was also exceptionally proud of his
286-AT computer, and how fast it was compared with the old XT computers when
iterating LISREL problems.  We worked together for  several days using LISREL
on an old XT computer, a Compact portable I had in my office, and it seemed
adequate at the time!  (2)  He was dying to obtain a copy of microsoft word,
and got a copy at the Penn Bookstore.  He strongly advised me to purchase and
use this program, which I did--and he could not believe how cheap software
was in the US compared with Sweden.  (3)  He was debugging PRELIS, which he
was just finishing up on.  He installed on of the first beta copies of PRELIS
on the old XT PC in my office.

Of the teachers I have had through the years, from college days to the
present, I have noticed that the giants in any particular field are almost
always extremely simple and clear in their teaching, just like Professor
Joreskog, and I have often felt that things that seem complicated or
difficult only appear that way because the person who is explaining them is
either doing a poor job of teaching or is covering up a lack of understanding
with big words and convoluted sentences.  We should all try to model our
teaching on the wonderful and clear teaching of Dr. Joreskog and think of
ourselves as teaching grammar school children!  Keep it simple and clear
whenever possible!

At any rate, we are lucky to have so many clear and helpful teachers on our
SEMNET...  Hope you enjoyed the Trivia Quiz!

David Burns



