Kathy's Home PageKathy's Home Page
  Kathy McKeown 
 I am a professor in the  Computer Science Department  at Columbia University  in  New York City .


 My interests lie in the area of natural language processing and in
particular, natural language generation. We are currently working in
three main areas.  The first, summary generation, involves the
generation of natural language text, or summaries, from data such as
stock market statistics. We are also have a number of projects on text
summarization. We are working on a generating summary updates over
live multimedia information, on domain independent generation of
summaries using a combination of statistical and linguistic
techniques, and on generation of summaries across multiple, medical
articles. In the second, statistical natural language, we are using
statistical analysis of large text corpora to identify constraints on
how words are used. Such results can be used to automate the
development of a lexicon, or dictionary. Finally, we are also working
on the generation of multimedia explanation, developing techniques to
coordinate language and graphics, to produce explanations in the
context of a human computer interface for medical information. Part of
our interest here is on the generation of spoken language and
differences with generation of text.

 Biographical information 
 Kathleen R. McKeown is the Henry and Gertrude Rothschild Professor
of Computer Science at Columbia University. She served as Department
Chair from 1998-2003. Her research interests include text
summarization, natural language generation, multi-media explanation,
digital libraries, concept to speech generation and natural language
interfaces. McKeown received the Ph.D. in Computer Science from the
University of Pennsylvania in 1982 and has been at Columbia since
then. In 1985 she received a National Science Foundation Presidential
Young Investigator Award, in 1991 she received a National Science
Foundation Faculty Award for Women, in 1994 was selected as a AAAI
Fellow, and in 2003 was elected as an ACM Fellow.  McKeown is also
quite active nationally.  She serves as a board member of the
Computing Research Association and serves as secretary of the board.
She served as President of the Association of Computational
Linguistics in 1992, Vice President in 1991, and Secretary Treasurer
for 1995-1997. She has served on the Executive Council of the
Association for Artificial Intelligence and was co-program chair of
their annual conference in 1991.


 Recent Publications of the NLP Group 
 Access to papers
published within the last year by members of the NLP group 
 Classes

 CS4705 - Natural Language Processing  Fall 2008
  CS 6998, Section 3, Natural Language Processing for the Web Spring 2008
 CS4701 - Artificial Intelligence  Fall 2007
 CS4705 - Natural Language Processing  Fall 1998
 CS4999 - Computing and the Humanities  Spring 1998


Information about the ACL

 Click here 

 The Natural Language Processing Group 

 Click here 

 Full CV   PDF  

 Kathleen (Kathy) McKeown / kathy@cs.columbia.edu
